---
title: Public competence
date: 2024-01-03
---

I created this website today and I'd like kick it off by sharing the rationale behind it.

**Reasons to create a personal website in no particular order:**

1. **Intrinsic enjoyment:** I often have nuanced, long-form thoughts I'd like to publish for the intrinsic enjoyment of doing so, but lack a suitable outlet. I've considered creating YouTube videos, but the time investment is too high relative to other priorities in my life. This serves as an ideal middle-ground.
2. **A personal repertoire of ideas:** If at some point I'd like to create long-form video content, this repertoire of ideas may serve as a deep well to pull from.
3. **Public competence:** You are only who you are perceived to be in the eyes of the perceiver. "Mike Tromba" is an idea that may exist in the mind of another human at any moment; but that human, especially if they have never met the person behind the name, has an incredibly limited sample of information on which to base their judgement. This website will serve as an opportunity to more effectively convey my thoughts, values, and competencies in a way that would be impossible otherwise. A public compression of the mind.
4. **Serendipity:** Activity tends to create results. When you pull a lever, **something** is more likely to happen than nothing. And often times, depending on the qualities of the lever, it is safe to assume that the risk-to-reward ratio associated with pulling the lever is attractively skewed in favor of reward. I believe that posting interesting thoughts and ideas on the internet, where they may be accessed by billions of people and consumed an infinite amount of times, is such a lever. There have been many instances in my life where I've leveraged the internet to distribute a project, and the right person, at the right time, happened to stumble upon it - leading to very interesting, often significantly beneficial outcomes that I could have never predicted. Multiple examples come to mind immediately, but I'll spare you the details. 
5. **Snapshots of the mind over time:** Wouldn't it be cool to be able to perceive your (beliefs & values) as they evolve over time? Seems cool to me. I imagine it would be a very interesting experience to read back on your raw, unfiltered thoughts from 10 years prior.
6. **Near-instant gratification:** The projects I embark on often exist on multi-year timescales. I believe this is ultimately how to create meaningful impact in the world. However, there's something really nice about combining long-term, high-impact initiatives with quick, instant wins. I view the ability to have an idea, write up an essay in 30mins, and publish it, as a way to achieve this effect.
7. **Improved writing ability:** I won't drone on about how valuable I believe the skill of writing to be. That can be an essay in and of itself. I will simply say that writing is an incredibly powerful, modern extension of communication. In many contexts, it's the fundamental interface through which we transfer information & emotions to other human beings. I suspect that the ROI on improving your writing skills exist on an exponential curve, where each ounce of time & energy you invest, is likely to output an ounce^n of value over the long run.
8. **Improved thinking & clarity of beliefs:** The act of writing gives the mind a powerful vehicle through which to toss & turn & refine ideas, to a level of depth that is probably impossible by just thinking quietly. Furthermore, if I turn this into a habit, I will have effectively carved out a chunk of time on a regular basis to think deep thoughts, and forge & refine ideas that may significantly benefit me over time. Sounds like a good deal to me.
9. **Resonant frequencies:** I often hear a sentiment along the lines of: we're more 'connected' than ever yet more disconnected than ever. Younger generations report having significantly fewer close friends than generations previous. I wonder if this can partly be explained by our modern ability, as individuals, to diverge deeply into whatever very specific path/set of interests we're interested in. "Back in the day," you were surounded by the same handful of peers, and you sort of just merged all of your interests, beliefs, and values with them. You became the average of the 5-6 people in your orbit. It was easy to form strong social bonds, because you were all on the same "wavelength." I suspect that a key difference nowadays, is that the 5-6 people you spend the most of your time with, you've probably never even met. Think about it - how many hours do you spend consuming content on the internet, on the exact, specific things you're interested in, from people (creators) who share the exact, specific beliefs and values you have. "Parasocial relationships." I think this is simultaneously a beautiful thing, but also leaves us feeling far more disconnected from the real, physical people we're surrounded with, as those parasocial relationships, by definition, cannot be reciprocated. Where am I going with this? While I do not feel this void of social connection that I've described, I still think there are huge benefits to be gained by leveraging the "beautiful" parts I described. I suspect that by emitting my "frequencies" into the world, there is a good chance that others, who are on the same "wavelength," may be drawn in - unlocking the possibility of forming interesting, unexpected relationships with the people who are most "resonant" with my specific set of thoughts, beliefs, and values. Phew, that was a lot. This can be an essay itself, so I will leave off here for now.

I'm sure I'm missing some good ones, but I'll end here for now.