---
title: A public compression of the mind
date: 2024-01-03
---

I created this website today and I thought I'd kick it off by sharing the rationale behind it.

**Reasons to create a personal website in no particular order:**

1. **Intrinsic enjoyment:** I often have nuanced, long-form thoughts I'd like to publish for the intrinsic enjoyment of doing so, but lack a suitable outlet. I've considered creating YouTube videos, but the time investment is too high relative to other priorities in my life. This serves as the ideal medium.
2. **A personal repertoire of ideas:** If at some point I'd like to create long-form video content, this repertoire of ideas may serve as a deep well to pull from.
3. **Public competence:** You are only who you are perceived to be in the eyes of the perceiver. "Mike Tromba" is an idea that may exist in the mind of another human at any moment; but that human, especially if they have never met the person behind the name, has an very limited sample of information on which to form their judgement. This website will serve as an opportunity to more effectively convey my thoughts, values, and competencies to a degree that would be impossible otherwise. A public compression of the mind.
4. **Serendipity / asymmetric upside:** There are certain levers you can pull in the world which have a risk-to-reward that is attractively skewed in favor of reward. I believe that posting interesting thoughts and ideas on the internet, where they may be accessed by any of the billions of internet users, and consumed an infinite amount of times, is such a lever. There have been many instances in my life where I've leveraged the internet to distribute a project, and the right person, at the right time, happened to stumble upon it - leading to very interesting, often significantly beneficial outcomes that I could have never predicted. Multiple examples come to mind immediately, but I'll spare you the details.
5. **High-leverage:** Write once, distribute for an infinite amount of time to an infinite amount of people with effectively zero additional variable costs. Nice.
6. **Snapshots of the mind over time:** Wouldn't it be cool to be able to track your (beliefs & values) as they evolve over time? Seems cool to me. It would be a very interesting experience to read back on my raw, unfiltered thoughts from 10 years prior.
7. **Near-instant gratification:** The projects I embark on often exist on multi-year timescales. I believe this is ultimately how to create meaningful impact in the world. However, there's something really nice about combining long-term, high-impact initiatives with quick, instant wins. I view the ability to have an idea, write up an essay in 30mins, and publish it, as a way to achieve this effect.
8. **Improved writing ability:** I won't drone on about how valuable I believe the skill of writing to be. That can be an essay in and of itself. I will simply say that writing is an incredibly powerful, modern extension of communication. In many contexts, it's the fundamental interface through which we transfer information & emotions to other human beings. I suspect that the ROI on improving your writing skills exist on an exponential curve, where each ounce of time & energy you invest, outputs an ounce^n of value over the long run.
9. **Improved thinking & clarity of beliefs:** The act of writing gives the mind a powerful vehicle through which to toss & turn & refine ideas, to a level of depth that is probably impossible by just thinking quietly to oneself. Furthermore, if I turn this into a habit, I will have effectively carved out a chunk of time on a regular basis to think deep thoughts, and forge & refine ideas that may significantly benefit me over time. Sounds like a good deal to me.
10. **Resonant frequencies:** I often hear a sentiment along the lines of: we're more 'connected' than ever yet more disconnected than ever. Younger generations report having significantly fewer close social relationships than generations previous. I wonder if this can partly be explained by our modern ability, as individuals, to diverge deeply into whatever very specific path/set of interests we're interested in. "Back in the day," you were surounded by the same handful of peers, and you sort of just merged all of your interests, beliefs, and values with them. You became the average of the 5-6 people in your orbit. It was easy to form strong social bonds, because you were all on the same "wavelength." I suspect that a key difference nowadays, is that many of the 5-6 people you spend the most of your time with, you've never even met. Think about it - how many hours do you spend consuming content on the internet, on the exact, specific things you're interested in, from people (creators) who share the exact, specific beliefs and values you have. "Parasocial relationships." Where am I going with this? While I do not personally feel or experience this void of social connection that I've described, I still think there are huge benefits to be gained by leveraging this "parasocial" effect as a creator. I suspect that by emitting my "frequencies" into the world, there is a good chance that others, who are on the same "wavelength," may be drawn in - unlocking the possibility of forming interesting, unexpected relationships with the people who are most "resonant" with my specific set of thoughts, beliefs, and values.

I'm sure I'm missing some, but I'll end here.